Hi everyone!
Today we will learn Python booleans.
Booleans represent one of two values true or false.
You can evaluate any expression in Python and get one of two answers.
When you compare two values, the expression is evaluated and Python returns the boolean answer here.
For example, print ten is greater than nine will return true, then equal to nine return false and
ten less than nine return false.
This is another example.
The result it will be B is not greater than A.
We can evaluate values and variables via the function bool.
For example, here we evaluate the string hello with the function bool and the result will be true also
for the second, it will be true.
Most values are true.
Almost any value is evaluated to true if it has some sort of content.
Any string is true except empty strings.
Any number is true except zero.
Any list, tuple, set, and dictionaries are true except empty one.
Here the following will return true.
Some values are false.
In fact, there are not many values that evaluate to false except empty values such as empty list,
empty dictionary, and empty set.
The number zero also and the value are known.
Here we will execute all this example and all will return false.
We can also evaluate an object.
When evaluate an object, we will see the result of the magic function length.
If it return zero or false, the result of bool Myobject it will return false.
In Python, we can create a function that return a boolean and also we can use this function in an if
statement here.
For example, if my function returns true, I print yes or else I print no.
There are a lot of other functions that return boolean like is instance, which can be used to determine
if an object is of a certain data type.
Here, for example, is instance x is and x is 200 and the result will be true.
Let's execute some of this example in PyCharm.
I use the debugger mode and let's do line by line.
Here the result will be true.
The second it will be false and then less than nine it will be false.
Here the result will be B is not greater than A.
The result of print bool.
Hello.
Return.
True.
Because this string is not empty and also this line will return true.
The result of three line of code.
It will be return true, not empty string and not empty list.
Some values are false like the boolean.
The the value false.
No zero.
Empty string.
Empty list.
All value are false.
Like we said, when try to evaluate an object, we will see the result of the magic magic function length.
If it returns zero or false, the result will be false.
Here in this case the return zero, and here the result will be false.
Like we said in Python, we can create a function that returns a boolean.
Here this function returns true.
Result.
It will be true.
We can.
Test this function in an if statement like in this example.
Here my function returns true and the result will be yes.
Print.
Yes.
There are a lot of functions that return boolean.
When of this function.
The function is instance.
To verify if x have the type int or no.
In this case x, take the value 200 and the result will be true.
Congratulations, you just learn Python booleans and just judge it for this video.